# Data_Wrangling_Springboard
Data Wrangling work for Springboard

Data Wrangling the DC Bike Sharing Data Set

	The bike sharing data set measures the number of daily and hourly users of the Washington DC. Municipal Bike Sharing system, Capital Bike-share. The data was collected during 2011 through 2012 and is separated into both day.csv and hour.csv. In these files, we have information on  bike usage through the day, or hour in the latter case. Meanwhile metrics such as weather, temperature, humidity, and wind-speed are available and potentially useful for predictive models. But before we can delve into analysis, the data must be prepared. 

	To begin the preparation I simply read in the files to pandas dataframes (day_df and hour_df respectively), and check for any null values using: day_df.isnull().any().any() after yielding False, I knew there were no null values. The next step was to take a look at some initial plots of the rides per day for each day of the year (That is to say, a plot of the days in the year versus the number of rides that day, the count variable). The values of users progressed as one would expect, a gradual increase in users through the spring and the summer with a user count peaking around the beginning of fall, rapidly declining during the winter months, and then repeating the pattern the following spring. There were numerous individual daily spikes in user counts, these could be caused by holidays, weekends, and even weather pattern changes. Seaborn’s box-plot function was used on the hour versus user count columns of hour_df   (contains both 2011 and 2012 data) as an initial foray into the outliers. 
	To properly understand the cause of the outliers, I took a deep dive into each independent variable: temperature, humidity, weather, day of the week, and holiday. I separated the daily and hourly data first into annual data, and subdividing those section again into seasonal data. At this point I conducted exploratory data analysis by applying Seaborn lm and residual plots to see if there were any strong linear correlations between variables such as weather, temperature, and wind-speed and our key dependent value of ride count. And while the average ride count was slightly lower of holidays and weekends, it wasn’t enough to cause any tremendous outliers. However, weather conditions, excluding humidity, were easily identified as the primary cause for outliers. There were zero counts of rides during heavy storm conditions (as the bike share service probably closes during those times (such as blizzard, hurricane, severe thunderstorms, etc), the ride count was also greatly diminished during light to modern rain and snow. Non-percipitation condition, such as humidity, temperature, and wind-speed had their own suite of effects on the ride count. Ride count trended upwards alongside temperature until the 75-77 degree range, after which is dropped steeply. Meanwhile, ride count during variouswind-speedss was fairly equal, until the 30 mph mark, where a steep decline began and trended downwards with the increasing winds. Finally, the users of Capital Bike-share did not change their usage with regards to humidity.
	
